in a surprise announcement this evening
President Biden set out a peace proposal
and ceasefire offer from Israel that he
said could end the war in Gaza Mr Biden
urged both Hamas and Israel's leaders to
accept the deal saying that those in
Israel who wanted indefinite war must
change their minds he outlined a
three-phase proposal that will begin
with an immediate six week ceasefire at
the same time Israeli forces would carry
out a withdrawal from Gaza Israeli
hostages in Gaza would be exchanged for
Palestinian prisoners and 600 trucks of
humanitarian Aid would be delivered
there every day in the second phase
Hamas and Israel would negotiate a
permanent end to
hostilities the Final Phase would
include a major reconstruction operation
in Gaza with international
support I know there are those in Israel
who will not agree with this plan and
will call for the war to continue
indefinitely some
some are even in the government
Coalition and they've made it clear they
want to occupy Gaza they want to keep
fighting for years and the hostages are
not a priority to them well I've urged
the leadership of Israel to stand behind
this deal despite whatever pressure
comes well let's speak now to Tom
baitman who's in Washington for us Tom
you're a former Middle East
correspondent you know the region well
how significant is this proposal
this is a significant intervention
tonight Rita by the US president and one
designed I think to finally draw a line
and try to bring this war to a close now
at the heart of the announcement there
was one very significant expression
phrase uh by Joe Biden and that was
about a permanent end to hostilities he
called it a permanent cessation in the
second phase negotiated in the first but
after 6 weeks uh a permanent Sensation
that means an end to this war and the
critical point there is that had been
The crucial demand of Hamas all the way
through and one uh senior Administration
official uh telling me tonight that this
text gets uh Hamas extremely close to
what it had had already agreed to in
previous talks that later uh fell apart
so I think this is meant uh designed to
be seen as a major concession by the
Israelis to try and get a deal uh back
on the table and then over the line but
what about those crucial sticking points
well tonight Hamas have said that they
view what Mr Biden has said here
positively but one senior Palestinian
official familiar with the text has told
the BBC they don't see that guarantee to
an end of hostilities in there but also
President Biden putting pressure on both
sides to try and take this not just
sticks but carrots too an incentive
given to prime minister Netanyahu
tonight a joint address to both houses
of Congress and a Letter of Invitation
has been put to him tonight that's how
far Mr Biden wants to go to get this
deal over the line and the war ended